SOFTWARE-3899 Running Stashcache in a container (#641)
opensciencegrid/docs: docs/data/stashcache/run-stashcache-container.md

Running Stashcache in a Container
=================================

> The OSG operates the [StashCache data federation](../stashcache/overview/), which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OSG operates the [StashCache data federation](/data/stashcache/overview/), which
```

Please use [site-relative links](https://opensciencegrid.org/technology/documentation/style-guide/#links), not doc-relative

provides organizations with a method to distribute their data in a scalable manner to thousands of jobs without needing
to pre-stage data across sites or operate their own scalable infrastructure.

> [Stash Caches](../install-cache/) transfer data to clients such as jobs or users. A set of caches are operated across the OSG for the benefit of nearby sites;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Stash Caches](/data/stashcache/install-cache/) transfer data to clients such as jobs or users. A set of caches are operated across the OSG for the benefit of nearby sites;
```

> in addition, each site may run its own cache in order to reduce the amount of data transferred over the WAN. This documents how to run stashcache in a Docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in addition, each site may run its own cache in order to reduce the amount of data transferred over the WAN.
This document outlines how to run StashCache in a Docker container.
```

> Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before Starting
```

--------

> The minimal decisions when running a stashcache are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before starting the installation process, consider the following points:
```

May as well use the same language as we do for the install guides. It's also worth noting that the user will need to have docker running and we assume they have root access so we should include those as bullet items

Author: Not really we only assume root for the systemd stuff I can place it there.

Reviewer: Well, technically you don't need root for that either. But to run a docker container you need to be part of the `docker` group at the very least, right?

Author: @brianhlin what about now? can you review it ?

> 1. A port  XrootD will use to listen for incomming connections (over HTTP) (default 8000)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A port for XRootD to listen for incoming connections (over HTTP) (default 8000)
```

> 1. In which partition of the host it will store the data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A partition on the host to store cached data
```

Running a Container
-------------------

To run the container, use `docker run` with the following options, replacing the text within angle brackets with your
own values:

```console
user@host $ docker run --rm --publish <HOST PORT>:8000 \

>              opensciencegrid/stash-cache:fresh \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             opensciencegrid/stash-cache:stable \
```

Fresh could very well be broken, we should only push users to use `stable`

             --volume <HOST PARTITION>:/tmp
```

> The `HOST PORT` is the port on your computer which will accept caching requests and <HOST PARTITION> will be the mount where to store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<HOST PORT>` is the port on your server which will accept caching requests and `<HOST PARTITION>` will be the mount where to store
```

the cached files.

> You can verify that it worked with the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you've chosen `8212` as your host port, you can verify that it worked with the command:
```

```console
user@host $ curl http://localhost:8212/user/dweitzel/public/blast/queries/query1
```

Which should output:

```
>Derek's first query!
MPVSDSGFDNSSKTMKDDTIPTEDYEEITKESEMGDATKITSKIDANVIEKKDTDSENNITIAQDDEKVSWLQRVVEFFE
```

Readying for Production
------------------------

Additional configuration is needed to make StashCache production-ready.

> 1. Add environment variables to set the name of the cache and the directory of the persistant cache.  It is important to remember that the directory set in the environment variable points to the directory **inside** the container.  It is later mapped to a host directory with the `--volume` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add environment variables to set the name of the cache and the directory of the persistent cache.  It is important to remember that the directory set in the environment variable points to the directory **inside** the container.  It is later mapped to a host directory with the `--volume` option.
```

XC_RESOURCENAME=ProductionCache
XC_ROOTDIR=/cache
```

It is recommended to use a container orchestration service such as [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) or [kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/), or start the XCache container with systemd.

An example systemd service file for xcache.  This will require creating the environment file in the directory `/opt/xcache/.env`. 

!!! note
    This example systemd file assumes <HOST PORT> is `8000` and  <HOST PARTITION> is `/srv/cache`.

```file
[Unit]
Description=XCache Container
After=docker.service
Requires=docker.service

[Service]
TimeoutStartSec=0
Restart=always
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker stop %n
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker rm %n
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/docker pull opensciencegrid/stash-cache:fresh
ExecStart=/usr/bin/docker run --rm --name %n --publish 8000:8000 --volume /srv/cache:/cache --env-file /opt/xcache/.env opensciencegrid/stash-cache:fresh

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

This systemd file can be saved to `/etc/systemd/system/docker.stash-cache.service` and started with:

```console
root@host $ systemctl enable docker.stash-cache
root@host $ systemctl start docker.stash-cache
```

!!! warning

>     [Register](../stashcache/install-cache/#registering-the-cache) the cache before considering it a production service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You must [register](/stashcache/install-cache/#registering-the-cache) the cache before it is considered a production service.
```

Additional Configuration (Optional)
-----------------------------------

In addition to the configuration avove before starting the container, write the following configuration on your docker host:

1. Write in same file as above(`/opt/xcache/.env`) containing the following required environment  variables and values for your XCache:

> 

Reviewer: Everything above this line in this section seems like it can be replaced with a single sentence:

```
In addition to the required configuration above, you may also configure the behavior of your cache with the following variables in your environment file:
```

    - `XC_SPACE_HIGH_WM`: High watermark for disk usage;
      when usage goes above the high watermark, the cache deletes until it hits the low watermark
    - `XC_SPACE_LOW_WM`: Low watermark for disk usage;
      when usage goes above the high watermark, the cache deletes until it hits the low watermark

>     - `XC_PORT`: TCP port that XCache listens on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `XC_PORT`: TCP port that XCache listens on
```

Is this actually something useful to change in the container world? Who cares what port the service listens to in the container, we're going to munge it through Docker/Kubernetes/etc networking anyway. Just a thought.

Author: Ahh this reminds me  I need to add a line about this in optimization. IT will make more sense

Running Stashcache in a Container
=================================

The OSG operates the [StashCache data federation](/data/stashcache/overview), which
provides organizations with a method to distribute their data in a scalable manner to thousands of jobs without needing
to pre-stage data across sites or operate their own scalable infrastructure.

[Stash Caches](/data/stashcache/install-cache) transfer data to clients such as jobs or users. A set of caches are operated across the OSG for the benefit of nearby sites;
in addition, each site may run its own cache in order to reduce the amount of data transferred over the WAN.
This document outlines how to run StashCache in a Docker container.

Before Starting
---------------

Before starting the installation process, consider the following points:

> 1. Docker should be running in the host you plan to install the cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Docker:** For the purpose of this guide, the host must have a running docker service and you must have the ability to start containers (i.e., belong to the `docker` Unix group).
```

> 1. User: `user` should be in the `docker` linux group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: @brianhlin above you wrote:

> But to run a docker container you need to be part of the docker group at the very least, right?

So which one is it?

> 1. A port for XRootD to listen for incoming connections (over HTTP) (default 8000)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Network ports:** Stash Cache listens for incoming HTTP/S connections on port 8000 (by default)
```

> 1. A partition on the host to store cached data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **File Systems:** Stash Cache needs a partition on the host to store cached data
```

> Running a Container

Reviewer: I think we can get rid of this section altogether except the validation bit, which can be moved to its own validation section at the end.

-------------------

To run the container, use `docker run` with the following options, replacing the text within angle brackets with your
own values:

```console
user@host $ docker run --rm --publish <HOST PORT>:8000 \
             opensciencegrid/stash-cache:stable \
             --volume <HOST PARTITION>:/tmp
```

The `<HOST PORT>` is the port on your server which will accept caching requests and `<HOST PARTITION>` will be the mount where to store

For example, if you've chosen `8212` as your host port, you can verify that it worked with the command:

```console
user@host $ curl http://localhost:8212/user/dweitzel/public/blast/queries/query1
```

Which should output:

```
>Derek's first query!
MPVSDSGFDNSSKTMKDDTIPTEDYEEITKESEMGDATKITSKIDANVIEKKDTDSENNITIAQDDEKVSWLQRVVEFFE
```

Readying for Production
------------------------

Additional configuration is needed to make StashCache production-ready.

> 1. Add environment variables to set the name of the cache and the directory of the persistent cache.  It is important to remember that the directory set in the environment variable points to the directory **inside** the container.  It is later mapped to a host directory with the `--volume` option.

Reviewer: Why is this a numbered bullet if there aren't any other bullets in the rest of the section?

An example final `docker run` command:
```console
user@host $ docker run --rm --publish <HOST PORT>:8000 \
             --volume <HOST PARTITION>:/cache \
             --env-file=/opt/xcache/.env \
             opensciencegrid/stash-cache:stable
```

Where the environment file on the docker host, `/opt/xcache/.env`, has the following contents:
```file
XC_RESOURCENAME=ProductionCache
XC_ROOTDIR=/cache
```

> It is recommended to use a container orchestration service such as [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) or [kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/), or start the XCache container with systemd.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use a container orchestration service such as [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) or [kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/), or start the StashCache container with systemd.
```

> An example systemd service file for xcache.  This will require creating the environment file in the directory `/opt/xcache/.env`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example systemd service file for StashCache. 
This will require creating the environment file in the directory `/opt/xcache/.env`. 
```

!!! note
    This example systemd file assumes <HOST PORT> is `8000` and  <HOST PARTITION> is `/srv/cache`.

```file
[Unit]

> Description=XCache Container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description=StashCache Container
```

After=docker.service
Requires=docker.service

[Service]
TimeoutStartSec=0
Restart=always
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker stop %n
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker rm %n
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/docker pull opensciencegrid/stash-cache:stable
ExecStart=/usr/bin/docker run --rm --name %n --publish 8000:8000 --volume /srv/cache:/cache --env-file /opt/xcache/.env opensciencegrid/stash-cache:stable

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

This systemd file can be saved to `/etc/systemd/system/docker.stash-cache.service` and started with:

```console
root@host $ systemctl enable docker.stash-cache
root@host $ systemctl start docker.stash-cache
```

!!! warning
    You must [register](/stashcache/install-cache/#registering-the-cache) the cache before considering it a production service.

> Additional Configuration (Optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optional Configuration
```

-----------------------------------

In addition to the required configuration above, you may also configure the behavior of your cache with the following variables in your environment file:

- `XC_SPACE_HIGH_WM`: High watermark for disk usage;
      when usage goes above the high watermark, the cache deletes until it hits the low watermark
- `XC_SPACE_LOW_WM`: Low watermark for disk usage;
      when usage goes above the high watermark, the cache deletes until it hits the low watermark
- `XC_PORT`: TCP port that XCache listens on
- `XC_RAMSIZE`: Amount of memory to use for storing blocks before writting them to disk. (Use higher for slower disks).
- `XC_BLOCKSIZE`: The size of the blocks in the cache
- `XC_PREFETCH`: Number of blocks to prefetch from a file at once. 
       This is a value of how aggressive the cache is to request portions of a file. Set to `0` to disable

### Optimizing Stashcache ###

#### Network Optimization ####

> For caches that are connected to NIC's over `40Gbps` we recommend to disable the virtualized network and "bind" the container to the host network:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For hosts that have NICs over `40Gbps` we recommend disabling the virtualized network and "binding" the container to the host network:
```

> ```console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console hl_lines="2"
```
This highlights the `--network="host" \` line

user@host $ docker run --rm  \
             --network="host" \
             --volume <HOST PARTITION>:/cache \
             --env-file=/opt/xcache/.env \
             opensciencegrid/stash-cache:stable
```

#### Memory Optimization ####

> Stashcache uses the hosts memory in two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
StashCache uses the hosts memory in two ways:
```

> 1. Uses the own linux kernel as a way to cache files read from disk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Uses the kernel as a way to cache files read from disk
```

I'm not sure what you mean exactly but this is my best guess

1. As a buffer for writting blocks of files first in memory and then in disk (to account for slow disks).

> An easy way to increase the performance of stashcache is to assign it more memory. You can use the [docker option](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/resource_constraints/#limit-a-containers-access-to-memory) `--memory` and set it up to at least twice of `XC_RAMSIZE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An easy way to increase the performance of StashCache is to assign it more memory. You can use the [Docker --memory option](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/resource_constraints/#limit-a-containers-access-to-memory) and set it to at least twice of `XC_RAMSIZE`.
```

> ```console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console hl_lines="2"
```

user@host $ docker run --rm --publish <HOST PORT>:8000 \
             --memory=64g \
             --volume <HOST PARTITION>:/cache \
             --env-file=/opt/xcache/.env \
             opensciencegrid/stash-cache:stable
```

#### Multiple Disks ####

> For caches that store over `10 TB` or that have assigned space for storing the cached files over multiple partitions (`/partition1, /partition2, ...`) we recommend the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For caches that store over 10TB or that have assigned space for storing the cached files over multiple partitions (`/partition1`, `/partition2, ...) we recommend the following.
```

> 1. Create a config file `90-my-stash-cache-disks.cfg` with the following contents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a config file `90-my-stash-cache-disks.cfg` on the host with the following contents:
```

But also, why don't we have them use the [cache-disks.config](https://github.com/opensciencegrid/docker-xcache/blob/master/xcache/image-config.d/10-disks-xcache.sh#L3-L9) feature?

        :::file
        pfc.spaces data
        oss.space data /data1
        oss.space data /data2
        .
        .
        .

1. Run the container with the following options:

        :::console
        user@host $ docker run --rm --publish <HOST PORT>:8000 \
             --volume <HOST PARTITION>:/cache \
             --volume /partition1:/data1 \
             --volume /partition2:/data2 \
             --volume /opt/xcache/90-my-stash-cache-disks.cfg:/etc/xrootd/config.d/90-stash-cache-disks.cfg \
             --env-file=/opt/xcache/.env \
             opensciencegrid/stash-cache:stable

!!! note
    Under this configuration the `<HOST PARTITION>` is not used to store the files rather to store symlinks to the files in `/partition1` and `/partition2`

!!! warning

>     For over 100 TB of assigned space we highly encourage to use this setup and mount `<HOST PARTITION>` in solid state disks or NVME.

Reviewer: Let's move this sentence to the intro paragraph of this section (and get rid of the warning)

> ### Disabling OSG monitoring ###

Reviewer: We should just get rid of this section since this is a Stash Cache doc.
